# ORIE 5741 Project Proposal

## Problem Statement
The goal of this project is to analyze the relationship between NBA players’ physical attributes (height, wingspan, player position, etc. ), other aspects of their gameplay (passing, shooting efficiency from the free-throw line and everything under 23 ft), and their capability to score three-pointers- since three pointing shooting is valued highly in the modern game. We plan on exploring other questions as well, such as: Does the position affect the number of 3 point shots a player makes and the success rate of the shots? Which position is more natural for 3 point shooting? By exploring a potential relationship between players’ attributes and their shooting, we can ultimately form an attributes template for the coaching staff to look out for, while evaluating a potential free agent or tradable asset. 

## Data Set 
In order to accurately predict three-point shooting efficiency for any given NBA player, we have gathered two paired datasets—the first of which stores all major 2000-2018 regular season statistics for shooting for 450 NBA players, and the second dataset contains the physical attributes of the players. More specifically, the first dataset provides information on each player’s shooting efficacy (like free throws, efficiency below twenty-three feet). The second dataset includes information on each player’s primary position(s), age, and team(s), along with 25 different statistics including various per-game statistics (ex: points, rebounds, assists, etc.) and full season statistics (ex: field goal percentage, three-point percentage, free throw percentage, number of games played, etc.). We collected both datasets from basketball-reference.com. This third-party website logs raw data, made available by National Basketball Association and its staff, collecting and storing relevant information after every game. 

## Importance of Problem
As each decade passes, the NBA always undergoes a metamorphosis in the way it’s been played. Previously 7 foot tall centers who could play with their back to the basket and dominate the glass were highly valued. Three point shots sent from beyond the 23ft line were considered as bad shots. However, as the game has progressed, three-pointers have become much more valuable to the game. The volume of three-pointers shot by each team increased, the efficiency has gradually increased as well. Therefore, being a reliable, efficient three-point shooter has become a sought-after commodity in today’s game. Using statistics and machine learning concepts, we hope to predict the archetype of a player who can shoot the three-ball well. This could potentially help organizations reduce the time and resources spent in evaluating a potential player.
